
+++ Where Do You Stand in 2017

Let's be honest, I don't want to pitch you anything right now. I just want to level set with you. There is a very good chance that you are behind on your digital marketing strategy and it is costing you way too much money. I would like to tell you why businesses like yours are changing their local advertising strategy. The reasons are very clear to us. The return on investment from the processes and channel tactics we deploy is much higher. Our websites load extremely fast, 90+% faster than most sites and are always mobile friendly. Load speed is very important to SEO. We bake SEO into our hosting. We do paid search budget and bid control scripts so we don't waste your money. We also won't hold you hostage.

When I talk to our customers we have learned that the greatest frustrations that business owners  experience dealing with local media outlets and organizations is that they are all looking to get a piece of their advertising budget and spend for doing very little work and then they want to hold the website they "built" or the "campaign they built" or the work they have done hostage. This doesn't work. Sure it protects they poorly compiled code or overpriced gimmick. There is not such thing as a channel strategy. You have a business strategy and then build out your channel tactics.

So, what's the big deal? This is the problem with building a digital presence on a platform that have been built for scale or seldom gets updates and maintenance. It is why companies like Amazon constantly work on their website and kick everyone else's ass. Who is everyone else? The people who update a website every 5 years like a stair step machine since 1995. One of the key reasons companies fail is that they seldom collect enough data to understand the actual business and add it to their digital presence. Some of them have been trained to do things this way by old media reps. Think about it. Years ago these business owners had to collect information just to meet print deadlines. Now they either have staff that do it or need help. We are inundated with information and seldom know where it goes or if it needs to be gathered for a purpose. This is much more gathering than you have been used to gathering.

Back in the day you won in local search the same way you do today, with headlines and subheadlines and great calls to action. Solid value propositions with good promotions. Like:

GET A $6000 Website for $375/mo Click Here!

This is the same thing we do today, the only difference is it is digital, you can change the message if it doesn't work, and you can get beat faster than the days of the yellow pages. We are all trying to legally steal calls from our competitors. That was the beauty of the yellow pages. It is the same as you do today. Local media sales reps once focused on the monthly cost, the size and position, the potential break even, and a gap in sales to resources and monthly income potential. This kind of traditional media sales made it easy to get businesses to risk big sums of money and even getting their phones shut off by the telephone company for potential business.  This is the beauty of the internet. We can quickly tell the difference behind the people or process for campaign management and whether they are experienced in real marketing or just new interns.

Things are changing as the dominant players in local search tends to start with Google and Apple Maps and then focuses on industry specific websites like HomeAdvisor and FindLaw or getting traffic by looking good and ranking on popular directories that rank on Google. SEOs call this barnacle SEO and most of us find ways to integrate reviews and reputation into our business. We have tools that help collect reviews for our clients. We also have tools so we know if these sites are actually bringing in new calls or just blowing smoke at us.

We know this because we track and even sometimes block and score calls for our customer's paid and organic search advertising campaigns, even when it is with companies like the newspaper and YELP. We don't need to be your paid search management experts to save you money on your paid search campaigns. Paid search is where all the annoying local media reps go to "cold call" to sell you more paid search. Remember, these are the same local media companies who want to duplicate content across multiple customer websites for SEO and/or charge you 35% of your paid ad spend for doing nothing after not gathering enough information the first time or having the control of your website to build a the proper campaign around your business & goals which ultimately wastes your money.  

Let's face the facts: Web designers want to sell you new websites (like the stair step method to nowhere) copy writers will say you need to fix your marketing message and positioning, and social media aficionados will tell you that you need to be Facebooking, Pinning, and Instagramming etc all day. Of course if you still advertise in the yellow pages, you know the dinosaur printers of saturation distribution who cluttered our door stops will still try to tell you that you need online yellow pages or even worse the print versions. Then of course you have the advertising agencies who want to charge you advertising agency rates to fix your branding and positioning problems. They will say that "every thing is a problem."

So, who is really on your side? Who is looking at the big picture? Who is able to measure the leads and conversions and make real business decisions? Who is actually in the data? If you don't have someone with experience in IT, Identity, and Marketing you are not going to make it in 2017. Google's recent changes have made the opportunities for every type of business to flourish in ways that were impossible before. They have also taken a bite out of the companies that can't keep up. Most of the time this is due to the web master or marketing guru that is holding them back. There is nothing pie-in-the-sky about marketing online. It's safe, trackable and is by far the highest ROI of any other advertising outlet. We understand that you need someone to take care of your online marketing that you can trust. The first step you will want to take is for that person to show you exactly where you rank online and where your competitors rank. This data is something I don't mind giving you. Just send me a list of keywords that you want to check with your business zip code and domain name and I will send you a report that you can check daily for absolutely FREE for the first 50 to email me at "mike @ riselocal.com"  
